Add Cloudflare Workers guide (#6830)
edgedb/edgedb: docs/guides/tutorials/cloudflare_workers.rst

.. _ref_guide_cloudflare_workers:

==================
Cloudflare Workers
==================

:edb-alt-title: Using EdgeDB in Cloudflare Workers

This guide demonstrates how to integrate EdgeDB with Cloudflare Workers to 
build serverless applications that can interact with EdgeDB. 

It covers the following:

- Setting up a new Cloudflare Worker project
- Configuring EdgeDB
- Using EdgeDB in a Cloudflare Worker
- Deploying the Worker to Cloudflare

> You can use this project as a reference: `EdgeDB Cloudflare Minimal Starter`_.

Author: Good idea. Moving!

Prerequisites
-------------

`Sign up for a Cloudflare account`_ to later deploy your worker.

Ensure you have the following installed:

- `Node.js`_
- `EdgeDB CLI`_

.. _Sign up for a Cloudflare account: https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up
.. _Node.js: https://nodejs.org/en/
.. _EdgeDB CLI: https://www.edgedb.com/docs/intro/cli

> Setup and Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup and configuration
```

Not a fan of this house style, but it was in place before I came and it's never a priority to change it. We generally use sentence case, even for titles, so first letter is caps and only proper nouns, acronyms, etc. otherwise. Feel free to update this globally.

-----------------------

Initialize a New Cloudflare Worker Project
===========================================

Use the `create-cloudflare`_ package to create a new Cloudflare Worker project.

.. _create-cloudflare: https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare

.. code-block:: bash

    $ npm create cloudflare@latest # or pnpm, yarn, bun

    # or
    $ npx create-cloudflare@latest

Answer the prompts to create a new project. Pick the *"Hello World" Worker*
template to get started.
   
You'll be asked if you want to put your project on Cloudflare.
If you say yes, you'll need to sign in (if you haven't already). 

> If you don't want to deploy up right away, just go to the project folder 
> you just made to start writing your code. When you're ready to put your 
> project on Cloudflare, you can run :code:`npx wrangler deploy` to push it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to deploy right away, switch to the project folder 
you just made to start writing your code. When you're ready to deploy your 
project on Cloudflare, you can run ``npx wrangler deploy`` to push it.
```

Reduced that sentence down to a single "just." Also switched the inline code syntax to be more consistent with other instances across the docs. Rendered result should be the same though.

.. note:: Using Wrangler CLI

    If you prefer using `Wrangler`_ to set up your worker, you can use the 
    :code:`wrangler generate` command to create a new project.

.. _Wrangler: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/cli-wrangler

Configure EdgeDB
=================

You can use `EdgeDB Cloud`_ for a managed service or run EdgeDB locally.

.. _`EdgeDB Cloud`: https://www.edgedb.com/cloud

**Local EdgeDB Setup (Optional for EdgeDB Cloud Users)**

If you're running EdgeDB locally, you can use the following command 
to create a new instance:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ edgedb project init

> It creates an :code:`edgedb.toml` config file, and a schema file 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It creates an :code:`edgedb.toml` config file and a schema file 
```

:code:`dbschema/default.esdl`.

> It also spuns up an EdgeDB instance and “links” it to the current directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also spins up an EdgeDB instance and associates it with the current
directory.
```
Since we have a CLI command `link`, I'm thinking it might be confusing the refer to this as "link" as well.

As long as you’re inside the project directory, all CLI commands will 
be executed against this instance.

You can run :code:`edgedb` in your terminal to open an 
interactive REPL to your instance. 

.. code-block:: bash

    $ edgedb

> **Install The EdgeDB npm package**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Install the EdgeDB npm package**
```

.. note:: EdgeDB DSN

    Replace :code:`<your-edgedb-dsn>` with your EdgeDB DSN.
    You can obtain your EdgeDB DSN from the command line by running:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ edgedb instance credentials --insecure-dsn

.. note:: tlsSecurity

    The :code:`tlsSecurity` option is set to :code:`insecure` to allow 
    connections to a local EdgeDB instance. This lets you test your
    Cloudflare Worker locally. **Don't use this option in production.**

**Client Setup with EdgeDB Cloud**

If you're using EdgeDB Cloud, you can instead use the following code to 
set up the client:

.. code-block:: typescript

   const client = edgedb.createHttpClient({
     instanceName: env.EDGEDB_INSTANCE,
     secretKey: env.EDGEDB_SECRET_KEY,
   });

You will need to set the :code:`EDGEDB_INSTANCE` and :code:`EDGEDB_SECRET` 
environment variables in your Cloudflare Worker project.

Add the following to your :code:`wrangler.toml` file:

.. code-block:: toml

    [vars]
    EDGEDB_INSTANCE = "your-edgedb-instance"
    EDGEDB_SECRET_KEY = "your-edgedb-secret-key"

Next, you can run :code:`wrangler types` to generate the types for your
environment variables.

> You can obtain these values from the EdgeDB Cloud dashboard.

Reviewer: I'd recommend moving this up as a note, just under the first case where the user will need the values.

**Running the Worker**

.. note:: Adding polyfills for Node.js 

    The :code:`edgedb` package currently uses Node.js built-in modules 
    that are not available in the Cloudflare Worker environment. 
    You have to add the following line to your :code:`wrangler.toml` file 
    to include the polyfills:

    .. code-block:: toml

        node_compat = true

To run the worker locally, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ npm run dev # or pnpm, yarn, bun

This will start a local server at :code:`http://localhost:8787`. 
Run :code:`curl http://localhost:8787` to see the response.

**Deploying the Worker to Cloudflare**

To deploy the worker to Cloudflare, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ npm run deploy # or pnpm, yarn, bun

This will deploy the worker to Cloudflare and provide you with a URL 
to access your worker.

Wrapping up
===========

Congratulations! You have successfully integrated EdgeDB with 
Cloudflare Workers.

Here's a minimal starter project that you can use as a 
reference: `EdgeDB Cloudflare Minimal Starter`_.

> Check out the `Cloudflare Workers documentation`_ for more information, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the `Cloudflare Workers documentation`_ for more information and 
```

you just made to start writing your code. When you're ready to put your 
project on Cloudflare, you can run :code:`npx wrangler deploy` to push it.

.. note:: Using Wrangler CLI

    If you prefer using `Wrangler`_ to set up your worker, you can use the 
    :code:`wrangler generate` command to create a new project.

.. _Wrangler: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/cli-wrangler

Configure EdgeDB
=================

You can use `EdgeDB Cloud`_ for a managed service or run EdgeDB locally.

.. _`EdgeDB Cloud`: https://www.edgedb.com/cloud

**Local EdgeDB Setup (Optional for EdgeDB Cloud Users)**

If you're running EdgeDB locally, you can use the following command 
to create a new instance:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ edgedb project init

It creates an :code:`edgedb.toml` config file, and a schema file 
:code:`dbschema/default.esdl`.

It also spuns up an EdgeDB instance and “links” it to the current directory. 
As long as you’re inside the project directory, all CLI commands will 
be executed against this instance.

You can run :code:`edgedb` in your terminal to open an 
interactive REPL to your instance. 

.. code-block:: bash

    $ edgedb

> **Install The EdgeDB NPM package**

Reviewer 2: Tiny nit:

```suggestion
**Install The EdgeDB npm package**
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ npm install edgedb # or pnpm, yarn, bun

**Extend The Default Schema (Optional)**

You can extend the default schema, :code:`dbschema/default.esdl`, to define 
your data model, and then try it out in the Cloudflare Worker code.

Add new types to the schema file:

.. code-block:: sdl

    module default {
      type Movie {

>         required property title -> str {
>           constraint exclusive;
>         };
>         multi link actors -> Person;
>       }
> 
>       type Person {
>         required property name -> str;
>       }

Reviewer 2: For new documentation, we've been preferring the newer EdgeDB SDL syntax [introduced in 3.0](https://www.edgedb.com/docs/changelog/3_x#simplified-sdl-syntax):

```suggestion
        required title: str {
          constraint exclusive;
        };
        multi actors: Person;
      }

      type Person {
        required name: str;
      }
```

    }

Then apply the schema schema to your EdgeDB instance:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ edgedb migration create
    $ edgedb migrate

Using EdgeDB in a Cloudflare Worker
====================================

Open the :code:`index.ts` file from the :code:`src` directory in your project, 
and remove the default code.

To interact with your **local EdgeDB instance**, use the following code:

.. code-block:: typescript

>     import * as edgedb from 'edgedb';
> 
>     export default {
>      async fetch(
>       _request: Request, 
>       env: Env, 
>       ctx: ExecutionContext
>      ): Promise<Response> {
>       
>       const client = edgedb.createHttpClient({
>        tlsSecurity: 'insecure',
>        dsn: '<your-edgedb-dsn>',
>       });
> 
>       const movies = await client.query(`select Movie { title }`);
> 
>       return new Response(JSON.stringify(movies, null, 2), {
>        headers: {
>         'content-type': 'application/json;charset=UTF-8',
>        },
>       });
>      },
>     } satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;

Reviewer 2: One more minor tiny formatting update:

```suggestion
    import * as edgedb from "edgedb";

    export default {
      async fetch(
        _request: Request,
        env: Env,
        ctx: ExecutionContext,
      ): Promise<Response> {
        const client = edgedb.createHttpClient({
          tlsSecurity: "insecure",
          dsn: "<your-edgedb-dsn>",
        });
        const movies = await client.query(`select Movie { title }`);
        return new Response(JSON.stringify(movies, null, 2), {
          headers: {
            "content-type": "application/json;charset=UTF-8",
          },
        });
      },
    } satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

>     } satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;

Reviewer 2: Can we add explicit imports for these various types?

Author: They are actually globals in the Cloudflare project. They add this config setting out-of-the-box when creating a new project:

```
"types": ["@cloudflare/workers-types/2023-07-01"]
```

.. note:: EdgeDB DSN

    Replace :code:`<your-edgedb-dsn>` with your EdgeDB DSN.
    You can obtain your EdgeDB DSN from the command line by running:

    .. code-block:: bash

>         $ edgedb instance credentials --insecure-dsn

Reviewer 2: til! nice!

Author: lol. I learned it yesterday

.. note:: tlsSecurity

    The :code:`tlsSecurity` option is set to :code:`insecure` to allow 
    connections to a local EdgeDB instance. This lets you test your
    Cloudflare Worker locally. **Don't use this option in production.**

**Client Setup with EdgeDB Cloud**

If you're using EdgeDB Cloud, you can instead use the following code to 
set up the client:

.. code-block:: typescript

>    const client = edgedb.createHttpClient({
>    	instanceName: env.EDGEDB_INSTANCE,
>    	secretKey: env.EDGEDB_SECRET_KEY,
>    });

Reviewer 2: Minor nit:

```suggestion
   const client = edgedb.createHttpClient({
     instanceName: env.EDGEDB_INSTANCE,
     secretKey: env.EDGEDB_SECRET_KEY,
   });
```

In general it'd be good to have all of this TS code formatted with the default Prettier config.
